README.md, before:

# Azure VM Scale Set Issues

This repo is intended for reporting and tracking issues with Azure VM scale sets and for making feature requests. We are also actively monitoring the following forums and recommend that you use them as described below:

## StackOverflow and MSDN

The [Azure VM scale set tag on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/azure-vm-scale-set) is recommended for asking questions about how the scale set platform works and how you might accomplish certain tasks with it.

## Azure Feedback forum

The [Azure Feedback Forum for Virtual MAchines](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/216843-virtual-machines) is a good place for submitting big feature ideas you have for the product. We encourage you to rally support for your suggestions within the community.

## Azure.com documentation comments via Disqus

The comment threads on the [VM scale sets documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets/) are the right place to report errors in the documentation itself or to report issues that occurred while following an article. 

## GitHub repos for VM scale set samples

You should continue to use the dedicated repos for reporting issues with VM scale set sample templates in [Azure quickstart templates](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates). Since the samples are fully open-source, those repos operate like traditional GitHub projects.

Commit message:

Generalizing repo for scale set preview as well as issues

README.md, after:

# Azure VM Scale Sets
This repo is for managing Azure virtual machine scale sets, in particular preview programs and issue.

## Where to log issues 
You can log issues for scale sets using this repo. Other places you can ask questions about scale sets include:

### StackOverflow and MSDN

The [Azure VM scale set tag on StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/azure-vm-scale-set) is recommended for asking questions about how the scale set platform works and how you might accomplish certain tasks with it.

### Azure Feedback forum

The [Azure Feedback Forum for Virtual MAchines](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/216843-virtual-machines) is a good place for submitting big feature ideas you have for the product. We encourage you to rally support for your suggestions within the community.

### Azure.com documentation comments via Disqus

The comment threads on the [VM scale sets documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets/) are the right place to report errors in the documentation itself or to report issues that occurred while following an article. 

### GitHub repos for VM scale set samples

You should continue to use the dedicated repos for reporting issues with VM scale set sample templates in [Azure quickstart templates](https://github.com/Azure/azure-quickstart-templates). Since the samples are fully open-source, those repos operate like traditional GitHub projects.
