preview/upgrade/readme.md, before:

# Azure VM scale set automatic upgrade and rolling upgrade preview

Welcome to the VM scale set automatic OS image update, and manually triggered rolling update preview.

This is currently a limited preview - you won't be able to use this feature unless your Azure subscription is registered to use it.

Sign up for the automatic upgrade and rolling upgrade feature previews [here](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbRynq-GTEl8lLqDPOris8e0JUMU9BQllYT1c5SzlIRlA4UTI0V0FUMDU3MC4u).

Last update: 7/19/17.

## Pre-requisites
Automatic OS upgrades are offered when the following conditions are met:

	The OS image is a platform Image only with Version = _latest_.
    
    The following SKUs during the intial preview (more will be added):
	
		Publisher: MicrosoftWindowsServer
		Offer: WindowsServer
		Sku: 2012-R2-Datacenter
		Version: latest
		
		Publisher: MicrosoftWindowsServer
		Offer: WindowsServer
		Sku: 2016-Datacenter
		Version: latest

		Publisher: Canonical
		Offer: UbuntuServer
		Sku: 16.04-LTS
		Version: latest

	For testing purposes you can use this nightly build during preview as well. This requires a separate feature flag, so please let us know if you plan to use other than the 3 OS versions above:

		Publisher: Canonical
		Offer: UbuntuServer
		Sku: 16.04-DAILY-LTS
		Version: latest


## When automatic upgrade happens
- Autoamtic OS upgrades are triggered when the publisher for your OS sku releases a new image version.

## How to configure auto-updates

- Sign up for the limited preview 

- Set UpgradePolicy is set to Rolling. 

- Syntax
```
"upgradePolicy": {
    "mode": "Rolling",
    "automaticOSUpgrade": "true" or "false",
	"rollingUpgradePolicy": {
		"batchInstancePercent": 20,
		"maxUnhealthyUpgradedInstanceCount": 0,
		"pauseTimeBetweenBatches": "PT0S"
	}
}
```
### Property descriptions
__batchInstancePercent__ – 
The maximum percentage of virtual machine instances in the virtual machine scale set that will be upgraded simultaneously by the rolling upgrade in one batch.
The default value is 20.


__pauseTimeBetweenBatches__ – 
The wait time between completing the update for all virtual machines in one batch and starting the next batch. 
The time duration should be specified in ISO 8601 format for duration (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Durations)
The default value is 0 seconds (PT0S).

__maxUnhealthyUpgradedInstanceCount__ -         
The maximum number of virtual machine instances which can fail to be successfully upgraded before the Rolling Upgrade is stopped.
This check will happen per batch after each batch is upgraded.
If the number of instances which have failed to be upgraded in this rolling upgrade exceeds this number, the rolling update aborts. The default value is 0.

## How to manually trigger a rolling upgrade

1) Make a post request to /subscriptions/<subId>/resourceGroups/<rgName>/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachineScaleSets/<vmssName>/osRollingUpgrade 
Calls to this API will only change the OS disks of your machine if there is a new OS to update your VMs to, and it will conform to the rolling upgrade policies you specify in the rollingUpgradePolicy section of the vmss configuration.

2) Change the OS version in your VMSS.

Note: you can have the OS version set to "latest" in your VMSS properties. However a manually triggered rolling upgrade will only take place after a newer version of the corresponding OS image has been published.

CRP API version is 2017-03-30

## Manuall rolling upgrade FAQ

Q. When a particular batch of VMs is picked for upgrade. Does this model ensure the existing HTTP connections are allowed to drain, and no new HTTP requests will be routed to the VMs in this batch, till deployment is complete? 

A. We do not move onto the next batch until the previous batch has completed being upgraded. 
In order to get the behavior that you are requesting you will need to add a custom health probe for your load balancer, and you need to start reporting unhealthy on your custom health probe when your OS receives a shutdown notification. You need to delay OS shutdown until you are no longer receiving traffic (you have been reporting unhealthy on your health probe for long enough).

There is no in built mechanism, it is up to partner teams to stop and start traffic using custom loadbalancer probes.

You are right about health probes not supporting http, although it is my understanding that that feature may be forthcoming (not sure what the product plan is there though)

The health probe need not be you website though, you can create a synthetic API that responds healthy always unless you are undergoing an update, or about to undergo an update or reboot.

There is no in built mechanism for draining, it is up to your app to stop and start traffic using custom loadbalancer probes. E.g. you can create a synthetic API that responds healthy always unless you are undergoing an update, or about to undergo an update or reboot.


## Example templates

### Automatic rolling upgrades - Ubuntu 16.04-LTS
<a href="https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FAzure%2Fvm-scale-sets%2Fmaster%2Fpreview%2Fupgrade%2Fautoupdate.json" target="_blank">
    <img src="http://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png"/>
</a>

### Automatic rolling upgrades - Ubuntu 16.04-DAILY-LTS for testing
<a href="https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FAzure%2Fvm-scale-sets%2Fmaster%2Fpreview%2Fupgrade%2Fdailyupdate.json" target="_blank">
    <img src="http://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png"/>
</a>

### Manual rolling upgrades

<a href="https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FAzure%2Fvm-scale-sets%2Fmaster%2Fpreview%2Fupgrade%2Fmanualupdate.json" target="_blank">
    <img src="http://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png"/>
</a>

## Example automatic rolling upgrade status

GET on /subscriptions/subscription_id/resourceGroups/resource_group/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachineScaleSets/vmss_name/rollingUpgrades/latest?api-version=2-17-03-30

```
{
  "properties": {
    "policy": {
      "batchInstancePercent": 20,
      "maxUnhealthyUpgradedInstanceCount": 0,
      "pauseTimeBetweenBatches": "PT0S"
    },
    "runningStatus": {
      "code": "Completed",
      "startTime": "2017-06-16T03:40:14.0924763+00:00",
      "lastAction": "Start",
      "lastActionTime": "2017-06-22T08:45:43.1838042+00:00"
    },
    "progress": {
      "successfulInstanceCount": 3,
      "failedInstanceCount": 0,
      "inprogressInstanceCount": 0,
      "pendingInstanceCount": 0
    }
  },
  "type": "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachineScaleSets/rollingUpgrades",
  "location": "southcentralus"
}
```

Commit message:

Adding info about rolling reimage

preview/upgrade/readme.md, after:

# Azure VM scale set automatic upgrade and rolling upgrade preview

Welcome to the VM scale set automatic OS image update, and manually triggered rolling update preview.

This is currently a limited preview - you won't be able to use this feature unless your Azure subscription is registered to use it.

Sign up for the automatic upgrade and rolling upgrade feature previews [here](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbRynq-GTEl8lLqDPOris8e0JUMU9BQllYT1c5SzlIRlA4UTI0V0FUMDU3MC4u).

Last update: 8/15/17.

## Pre-requisites
Automatic OS upgrades are offered when the following conditions are met:

	The OS image is a platform Image only with Version = _latest_.
    
    The following SKUs during the intial preview (more will be added):
	
		Publisher: MicrosoftWindowsServer
		Offer: WindowsServer
		Sku: 2012-R2-Datacenter
		Version: latest
		
		Publisher: MicrosoftWindowsServer
		Offer: WindowsServer
		Sku: 2016-Datacenter
		Version: latest

		Publisher: Canonical
		Offer: UbuntuServer
		Sku: 16.04-LTS
		Version: latest

	For testing purposes you can use this nightly build during preview as well. This requires a separate feature flag, so please let us know if you plan to use other than the 3 OS versions above:

		Publisher: Canonical
		Offer: UbuntuServer
		Sku: 16.04-DAILY-LTS
		Version: latest


## When automatic upgrade happens
- Autoamtic OS upgrades are triggered when the publisher for your OS sku releases a new image version.

## How to configure auto-updates

- Sign up for the limited preview 

- Set UpgradePolicy is set to Rolling. 

- Syntax
```
"upgradePolicy": {
    "mode": "Rolling",
    "automaticOSUpgrade": "true" or "false",
	"rollingUpgradePolicy": {
		"batchInstancePercent": 20,
		"maxUnhealthyUpgradedInstanceCount": 0,
		"pauseTimeBetweenBatches": "PT0S"
	}
}
```
### Property descriptions
__batchInstancePercent__ – 
The maximum percentage of virtual machine instances in the virtual machine scale set that will be upgraded simultaneously by the rolling upgrade in one batch.
The default value is 20.


__pauseTimeBetweenBatches__ – 
The wait time between completing the update for all virtual machines in one batch and starting the next batch. 
The time duration should be specified in ISO 8601 format for duration (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Durations)
The default value is 0 seconds (PT0S).

__maxUnhealthyUpgradedInstanceCount__ -         
The maximum number of virtual machine instances which can fail to be successfully upgraded before the Rolling Upgrade is stopped.
This check will happen per batch after each batch is upgraded.
If the number of instances which have failed to be upgraded in this rolling upgrade exceeds this number, the rolling update aborts. The default value is 0.

## How to manually trigger a rolling upgrade

1) Make a post request to /subscriptions/<subId>/resourceGroups/<rgName>/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachineScaleSets/<vmssName>/osRollingUpgrade 
Calls to this API will only change the OS disks of your machine if there is a new OS to update your VMs to, and it will conform to the rolling upgrade policies you specify in the rollingUpgradePolicy section of the vmss configuration.

2) Change the OS version in your VMSS.

Note: you can have the OS version set to "latest" in your VMSS properties. However a manually triggered rolling upgrade will only take place after a newer version of the corresponding OS image has been published.

CRP API version is 2017-03-30

## How to manually trigger a rolling reimage
Sometimes you may want to just re-set your existing scale set to factory settings. For example you have a stateless app and want to trigger the VMs extensions to re-run. As part of this preview, you can trigger a rolling reimage of a scale set with the following REST API call: /virtualMachineScaleSet/<scaleSetName>/osRollingUpgrade?forceReimage=true

## Manuall rolling upgrade FAQ

Q. When a particular batch of VMs is picked for upgrade. Does this model ensure the existing HTTP connections are allowed to drain, and no new HTTP requests will be routed to the VMs in this batch, till deployment is complete? 

A. We do not move onto the next batch until the previous batch has completed being upgraded. 
In order to get the behavior that you are requesting you will need to add a custom health probe for your load balancer, and you need to start reporting unhealthy on your custom health probe when your OS receives a shutdown notification. You need to delay OS shutdown until you are no longer receiving traffic (you have been reporting unhealthy on your health probe for long enough).

There is no in built mechanism, it is up to partner teams to stop and start traffic using custom loadbalancer probes.

You are right about health probes not supporting http, although it is my understanding that that feature may be forthcoming (not sure what the product plan is there though)

The health probe need not be you website though, you can create a synthetic API that responds healthy always unless you are undergoing an update, or about to undergo an update or reboot.

There is no in built mechanism for draining, it is up to your app to stop and start traffic using custom loadbalancer probes. E.g. you can create a synthetic API that responds healthy always unless you are undergoing an update, or about to undergo an update or reboot.


## Example templates

### Automatic rolling upgrades - Ubuntu 16.04-LTS
<a href="https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FAzure%2Fvm-scale-sets%2Fmaster%2Fpreview%2Fupgrade%2Fautoupdate.json" target="_blank">
    <img src="http://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png"/>
</a>

### Automatic rolling upgrades - Ubuntu 16.04-DAILY-LTS for testing
<a href="https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FAzure%2Fvm-scale-sets%2Fmaster%2Fpreview%2Fupgrade%2Fdailyupdate.json" target="_blank">
    <img src="http://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png"/>
</a>

### Manual rolling upgrades

<a href="https://portal.azure.com/#create/Microsoft.Template/uri/https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2FAzure%2Fvm-scale-sets%2Fmaster%2Fpreview%2Fupgrade%2Fmanualupdate.json" target="_blank">
    <img src="http://azuredeploy.net/deploybutton.png"/>
</a>

## Example automatic rolling upgrade status

GET on /subscriptions/subscription_id/resourceGroups/resource_group/providers/Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachineScaleSets/vmss_name/rollingUpgrades/latest?api-version=2-17-03-30

```
{
  "properties": {
    "policy": {
      "batchInstancePercent": 20,
      "maxUnhealthyUpgradedInstanceCount": 0,
      "pauseTimeBetweenBatches": "PT0S"
    },
    "runningStatus": {
      "code": "Completed",
      "startTime": "2017-06-16T03:40:14.0924763+00:00",
      "lastAction": "Start",
      "lastActionTime": "2017-06-22T08:45:43.1838042+00:00"
    },
    "progress": {
      "successfulInstanceCount": 3,
      "failedInstanceCount": 0,
      "inprogressInstanceCount": 0,
      "pendingInstanceCount": 0
    }
  },
  "type": "Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachineScaleSets/rollingUpgrades",
  "location": "southcentralus"
}
```
